---
title: Gribble Lab FAQ
author: Paul Gribble
date: July 15, 2019
---

# Contact Information

- My office is WIRB 4122. Our lab rooms are WIRB 3141, 3133, and 2108

- My office phone is (519) 661-2111 x82237

- The lab phone (located in WIRB 3141) is (519) 661-2111 x86185

- Denise Soanes <dsoanes4@uwo.ca> Receptionist WIRB 3190; x86057

- Florence Lourdes <flourdes@uwo.ca> Administrative Officer WIRB 3184;
  x82069

- Haitao Yang <htyang@uwo.ca> System Administrator WIRB 3176; x82736

- Derek Quinlan <dquinla4@uwo.ca> Technical Staff WIRB 3178; x87988

# Lab Culture

I want everyone in the lab to feel valued and welcome. We have a
diverse group of people who bring different skills, personal
backgrounds, and strengths. We all have different academic backgrounds
as well. Some come from a Psychology tradition, some from Physiology
or Biology, some from Kinesiology, some from Engineering, etc. I am
happy all of you are here, I care about you as human beings, and I
want you to feel happy to be here and excited about your work.

My personal belief is that everyone I welcome into the lab brings
something valuable to the table. More than that, I believe everyone I
welcome into the lab has great potential to grow as a scientist and as
a person. My outlook is to try to always assume people have good
intentions, and to be welcoming, supportive, and generous in my
approach. I hope we can all adopt this outlook together.

I am not a perfect person and I make mistakes. If something is
bothering you about something I have done or said, or not done or not
said, I hope you will feel comfortable bringing it to me.

## Equity & Diversity

We are committed to supporting and promoting equity and diversity in
our lab. Diversity is not a challenge to be overcome or a difficulty
to be tolerated, it is a tremendous source of strength. We are
stronger when we embrace different backgrounds, perspectives and
approaches, in our lab and in our community. Everyone is welcome in
our lab, regardless of race, nationality, religion, gender, sexual
orientation, age, or disability. In our lab we are respectful of each
other. We don't tolerate harassment, belittlement, bullying, or
discrimination of any kind.

## Conflict resolution

It's really important to me that everyone in the lab can get along and
work together in a mutually respectful and intellectually generous
environment. Working together with people who have different
personalities, a wide range of ages, and a diversity of life
experience can be challenging at times, for sure. It's something we
all have to work together to support.

If you have concerns about how a fellow lab member is behaving
interpersonally, please first try your best to resolve the situation
with each other, if appropriate. If you still have concerns please
communicate them to me. I will listen, without judgement, and do my
best to support you. If needed, I will take steps to address a
situation that is causing interpersonal conflict. Ultimately though it
is up to each of us to find a way to work together.

## Egregious behaviour

I expect us all, including myself, to be respectful of each other. We
do not tolerate harassment, belittlement, bullying, or discrimination
of any kind. Being respectful means many things, but it includes: not
gossiping about each other's private lives; respecting confidentiality
in official matters with the University; being mindful of how other
people might interpret jokes differently than yourself; behaving in a
professional manner in the lab, on campus, and when dealing with the
public in your capacity as a scientist (e.g. experimental
participants, patients, visiting speakers, etc). If you have concerns
about harassment, unprofessional behaviour, in the context of our lab
or any other situation on campus, please come to me straight away to
communicate your concerns.

## Communication after hours

If I email you on nights/weekends/holidays, I do not expect you to
respond straight away. Rather, as a parent & someone who loves the
freedom academia gives me to set my own schedule, I work whenever I
can/need/want to.  And so can you.

# Need Help?

The Graduate & Postdoctoral Studies Society at Western (SGPS) has a
number of services available for trainees including Health Services,
Housing Services, an Equity & Human Rights office, Disability
Services, Indigenous Services, and Pride Western. See [this
link](http://grad.uwo.ca/current_students/student_services/index.html)
for details.

The Student Health Services office has a variety of services including
medical appointments with Physicians, Birth Control information,
Counselling & Psychiatry, Allergy injections & immunization (including
annual flu shots), sexually transmitted disease testing, wellness
activities (meditation, tai chi, yoga), Sports-Medicine Clinic (the
[Fowler-Kennedy Sports Medicine
Clinic](http://www.fowlerkennedy.com/), which provides sports-medicine
appointments with Physicians & Surgeons, as well as Physiotherapy) and
Crisis Intervention. I encourage you to take advantage of the services
offered here, as needed. Please let me know if I can help you find the
services you need on campus and elsewhere.

**If you are in crisis or you are concerned about someone who is in
crisis**, there are daytime and after-hours crisis services available,
please [see this webpage](http://www.uwo.ca/health/crisis.html) for
contact information.

# Emergency Phone Numbers

- Campus Police: 911 (Emergencies) or 519-661-3300 (non-Emergencies)

- London Police: 9-911

- Fire: 911

- Ambulance: 911

- Sexual Assault Centre London: 519-438-2272 (24-hour crisis support)

- Mental Health Crisis Service (24-hours): 519-433-2023

- Distress Centre Help-Line (London): 519-667-6711

- Equity & Human Rights: 519-661-3334

- Student Health Counselling: 519-661-3771

# Work--Life Balance

In general I expect us all to be in the lab for normal-ish work hours.
Typically I arrive in the lab around 9:00 am and I leave in the late
afternoon. Some days I leave mid-afternoon when it is my turn to pick
up the my kids from school. I never work on weekends or evenings (and
I rarely did as a graduate student). Occasionally there are "crunch"
times, like before the deadline to a grant application, or before a
big presentation, where it might make sense to work longer hours or
get stuff done on evenings or weekends. In general I try to avoid that
kind of situation, and I suggest you do as well. Try to be organized
and efficient, and plan ahead, so that your work can get done without
having to work in your spare time.

I may now and then send you email or contact you on Slack outside
normal work hours, usually because I've found some free time to catch
up on things. Know however that I don't expect you to respond outside
of your normal work hours. I respect and support the idea of
protecting non-work time.

Being present in the lab counts for a lot. You will bump into people
and conversations will start, you will talk about your work, their
work, a paper you read, a talk you saw. Ideas will happen. Spontaneous
interactions like this are a big part of science and of any kind of
creative work. The more you're present, and interactive, the more this
will happen. I'm a big proponent of being present as much as
possible. Reading papers? Read them here. Writing a results section?
Write it here. Grading assignments? Grade them here.

Statutory Holidays are real. Take the time off. I do.

In the summer I typically take several weeks in August for holidays,
during which time I won't be in the lab. I encourage you to do the
same, but I realize that your schedules and personal constraints may
not align with my own holiday schedule. That's fine. Just talk to me
about when you would like to take time off. Be sure to take time off
in the summer. It's important.

When you're sick, please stay home. Just let me know you are taking a
sick day, stay off your computer, get some rest, and get better. If
you come to the lab when you are sick, you will likely get other
people sick, and there may be people in the lab, or in the building,
for whom it's dangerous to get sick because of chronic medical
conditions. Please stay home if you're sick.

Being ambitious and working hard are part of our lab culture, but the
key is to know your limits. Like in sports, you advance by pushing out
of your comfort zone, but if you push too hard you end up injured and
stuck on the sidelines. You will probably find as you spend more years
in the lab and you mature as a scientist and as a person, your
capabilities will expand and you will be able to manage more
commitments and projects. Managing your motivation and work habits
while integrating interests and commitments outside of work is a key
self-leadership skill that will serve you well throughout your career,
and now is a great time to build that skill.

# Well--being

We are all here to grow as scientists, leaders, and people by pursuing
ambitious research goals. However, that should never come at the cost
of your well-being. Your mental and physical health are by far the
most important consideration in all that you do while in our
lab. Moreover, success should not come at the cost of maintaining your
interests/hobbies or healthy relationships in your life. In fact, you
are more likely to be successful if you take care of yourself and give
time to the things outside of work that matter to you. Below are some
general guidelines on well-being, but every situation is unique, and I
am always open to discussion on this topic, so please donâ€™t hesitate
to ask.

If you are not feeling well, either physically or mentally, take the
time off you need to seek out help and take care of yourself (see the
"Need Help?" section above for pointers to specific services). If you
are struggling with depression or anxiety and wondering: "Is it okay
to go see a counselor instead of running a participant this afternoon"
the answer is Absolutely! Get the help that you need. If you have an
acute situation that requires help, take the day (or a few days) off
with no questions asked. If you are going to be out for more than 3
days or miss a lab meeting, just let me know so that I know you are
okay---no need to give details if you don't want to, it is sufficient
to email and say that you have a personal health situation. If you
need to take more substantial amounts of time off, you can work with
me to facilitate this.

Being an undergraduate, grad student, or postdoc can be
stressful. Moreover if you are a member of the lab for multiple years,
the chances that one or more significant life situations will arise
are fairly high. When this happens the top priority is taking care of
yourself and dealing with the situation. If possible, communicate with
me to let me know that you are dealing with something and
approximately how much time you will need off. You can share as much
or as little detail as you feel comfortable with. These situations are
stressful so also make sure you are taking care of yourself and
getting help if needed.

# My Feedback to You

I will try my best to provide feedback to you quickly---feedback about
manuscript drafts, abstracts, presentations, data analyses, etc. I'm
always happy to help out when you are having difficulties with your
work but do remember that part of your training is to work through
these kinds of challenges. Do come to me after you've made a solid
attempt at a solution, and we can work through it together.

My goal is to get you feedback on short documents within 1-3
days. Short documents are things like Abstracts, or a single section
of a manuscript (e.g. an Introduction section). For long documents (an
entire manuscript, or an entire presentation) my goal is 1-2
weeks. Typically I am fast with providing feedback.

While you're waiting for feedback, don't stop working on your
document!  When you have new thoughts or time to work on your document
again, feel free to tell me you're going to make some more changes and
send me a new version.

# Lab Rooms

- lab rooms are booked using a Google Calendar. Contact me to get an
    invitation

- for urgent matters or emergencies related to facilities (e.g. a
    water leak) please contact me and/or Florence, Denise, or Haitao
    right away

- if there is smoke or a fire, leave the building, pull a fire alarm
    if you pass one on the way out, and phone 911 immediately

- if there is a medical emergency, phone 911 immediately

- if there is a security incident, leave the area first and then and
    phone 911 immediately

# Mentoring & Supervision

- I am generally around all the time and available to chat. If I'm not
    in my office, get in touch on Slack or on email

- If you would like to talk for more than a couple of minutes, please
    schedule a time with me

- My response time on Slack and on email is generally very fast,
    although on weekends and outside of work hours (i.e. between 5:00
    pm and 9:00 am) it can be slower

# Lab Meetings

- We have a regular lab meeting "just us" (just the Gribble Lab)
    Tuesdays 11:30 am-12:30 pm

- We usually also meet Wednesday afternoons with the Pruszynski lab
    and the Diedrichsen lab for shared "superlab" meetings & journal
    clubs; the exact time & location may change from year to year

- lab meetings (shared and on our own) are a great opportunity to get
    feedback and constructive criticism on new or ongoing projects, in
    a supportive and safe environment

- reading and discussing papers outside of one's specialty is a good
    thing, it helps to broaden your perspective and it can result in
    new ideas

# Research Ethics Protocols

- all experiments must have approval from Western's Research Ethics
    Board (REB)

- each of you is responsible for obtaining an REB approval for your
    study/studies

- you are responsible for keeping detailed records of each research
    participant including receipts for payment of subject fees

- getting a study approved can sometimes take several months so start
    early

- better to submit early and submit revisions than wait until your
    study design is perfected

- all protocols and approvals are to be stored in a shared folder in
    the Gribble Lab Dropbox

# Travel to Conferences

- travel to conferences is dependent from year to year on our lab
  budget

- generally, our model is, you should present a poster or give a talk
  if you are attending a meeting

- if budget permits, our standard model is: everyone goes to SFN and
    to NCM each year

- if there is another meeting or meetings that you would like to
    attend, you should be presenting your work, and you'll need to ask
    me if the lab budget permits it

- if the lab budget gets tight, we may have to restrict travel to 1
    meeting per year, and/or only when you are presenting a poster or
    giving a talk (as first author)

# Purchasing & Lab Supplies

- All purchases using research accounts must comply with both
    University and Tri-Council rules about eligible expenses. If there
    is any doubt, ask me. The simple rule is, all purchases must be
    directly related to research activities.

- You can use your own money to buy things, and then submit an expense
    report afterwards to get reimbursed (it typically takes 7--10 days
    to see the money in your account)

- If the vendor supports it you can also use one of the lab's
    speed-codes to directly charge one of our research grants. Ask me
    for the appropriate speedcode to use

# Software & Computers

- We mostly use computers running MacOS or Linux. Having said that if
    you want to run Windows, that's fine too, but just know that I
    can't help, I know nothing about Windows

- Our lab research accounts can support buying one computer per
    trainee. This can be a desktop or a laptop (plus external
    display(s), additional external storage/backup, and keyboard &
    mouse)

- Western has a site license for MATLAB and for Microsoft Office

- As a rule we all use Google Docs and Paperpile for writing
    manuscripts, abstracts, etc. though markdown and/or LaTeX is also
    encouraged.

- In general, if there is a piece of software you need for your work,
    we can buy it using our research account(s). Come and see me and I
    will likely approve the purchase.

# Research Data

- We use Dropbox Business to store and share all of our
    research-related documents and data. If you haven't received an
    invitation for an sign-up, let me know and I'll send it to you

- Our Dropbox Business accounts allow for unlimited data storage

- Use your Dropbox Business account **ONLY** for lab-related data and
    files

- **Do not use the Dropbox Business account to store personal data or
    personal files**

- **DO NOT STORE ILLEGALLY ACQUIRED DIGITAL FILES, DATA, MOVIES, or
    MUSIC ON OUR DROPBOX BUSINESS ACCOUNT**

- **DO NOT STORE ANY PERSONAL or ILLICIT or PORNOGRAPHIC or otherwise
    QUESTIONABLE DATA, FILES, or MEDIA ON OUR DROPBOX BUSINESS
    ACCOUNT**

- In addition, everyone should purchase (you can file an expense
    report and get reimbursed) an external hard drive to store an
    extra copy of your research-related documents and data, off-site
    (e.g. at home). It is critical to maintain an off-the-cloud,
    off-lab-site archive of your data, documents and code.

# Lab RAID Archive

- We have a 15 TB RAID array that we use to archive lab-related data
    and documents. The idea is long-term, in-house, on-site archival
    storage of lab related data and documents. The RAID array is
    located in the server room at the BMI. You should all have login
    accounts on it so that you can access it remotely, to store and
    retrieve your files as necessary. If you need a login account or
    you have lost your password please come and see me.

- The archive is automatically mirrored off-site, every night.

- The purpose of the RAID Archive is to act as an in-house archive
    repository of all lab data and documents. You should deposit all
    raw data, experiment scripts and programs, data analysis scripts
    and processed data on the Archive.

- As with your Dropbox Business account, **DO NOT STORE ILLEGAL or
    ILLICIT or PERSONAL DATA, MEDIA, or FILES ON THE LAB RAID
    ARCHIVE**

- Only use the lab RAID Archive to store lab-related data and files,
**not personal files**

# Other Information

If there is anything you need to know please get in touch with me, I'm
here to help.

# Attribution

Portions of the faq have been adapted from materials posted on twitter
by @jenheemstra and others.

---Paul

